[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of "Gaiam Inspirations."
Welcome to our beautiful,
Los Angeles studio.
So you might recognize the
laugh [LAUGHING] of my guest
today, because spiritual teacher
Michael Tamura has joined me
before on "Gaiam
Inspirations," telling
his extraordinary story.
And so many people were
interested in his story.
We really didn't
get to all of it.
And I wanted to have
him back on the show
to continue with his incredible
journey of dying five times.
So he has been a spiritual
teacher for over 39 years.
And he has returned here
on "Gaiam Inspirations"
to share messages
from the other side.
[MAKING EERIE SOUNDS]
It sounds so it weird, but
this actually happened to you.
And as I said before,
it's amazing that you're
here to tell these stories.
Yes I'm amazed too.
LISA GARR: Yes.
Not many people have really
been clinically dead five times
and could sit here
and laugh about it.
So it's a gift to
just have you here.
Thank you.
So for those who didn't
see the other interview,
you are a teacher,
and you've been
teaching messages
of spirituality
for the past 39 years.
What is the essence
of what you teach?
Well, like I mentioned
before, I've always taught
people how to die correctly.
But that's something
that most people
have a hard time hearing.
LISA GARR: Right.
I guess people don't
want to hear about dying.
I want to learn how to
live before I go die.
Yes, it's like, hi,
good morning class,
I'm going to teach
you how to die.
Because people have
an idea that death
is a one time and final thing.
LISA GARR: It isn't?
No.
From the body's
perspective, yes.
From the body's perspective,
we're born once,
and then at the end of
the life, the body dies.
And that's it.
So for the body it's over.
But from the soul's
perspective death
is always a recurring thing.
It's a recurring
theme over and over
and over throughout our entire
journey, because every time we
have to let go of something.
Now are you talking about
through like transformational
moments in our lives?
Pivotal moments,
that type of thing
is considered a soul's death?
Yes, because from the soul's
perspective, dying even
from a physical body death,
like I've been through,
from the soul's perspective it's
just getting out of the body
and letting go of the
body, instead of holding
on to the idea that, oh, my
god, if I don't have this body,
I cease to exist,
which is not true.
Anybody who's been
dead, knows that.
I mean, explain how you
can actually say that.
So that's definitely a
new concept for people.
Yes, it's when you're coming
from the body's perspective,
when you approach
the bodily death,
either the doctor says,
OK, you have a month
to live because you have a
terminal illness or something,
or you're old and your
time is coming or whatever,
there's a sense of ending.
And that ending is very true.
But when do people have a
difficult time dying even just
in that context is when they
have a lot of attachments
to things here on Earth.
I don't want to
abandon my family,
for example, or my children.
Or, gee, you know,
I'm at the pinnacle
of my career and success.
And I'm just getting there.
Don't let me die.
I want to live.
I haven't done the
things I want to do--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Exactly.
-Yes.
Exactly.
And so they're looking already
before they die, they're
looking at the regrets
they're going to have
if they don't make it, if
they don't get through this
and stay alive.
But from the soul's perspective,
when it's your time to go,
it's one of not only
leaving this physical body,
but leaving this entire
incarnation and all
that you thought that was.
But isn't the fear of death a
major driver in staying alive?
Absolutely, for most.
I would say probably
99% of the population.
It's fear of death
keeps one not living.
See this is why I say
teach-- everything
I teach about
psychic development,
clairvoyant development,
your intuitive development,
your spiritual path,
everything is about, OK,
how do you get past
that fear of death?
Because as long as
the fear of death
is your motivation for
living, you don't live.
LISA GARR: You're surviving.
You're surviving.
You're hanging in there.
You're never alive.
Once you're able to
face death and go,
OK, I know how I'm going to die.
I know how I would like to die.
We have a choice in how we die.
That's--
LISA GARR: I just got
over the last concept now.
Slow down here.
OK, so beyond living in just
a place of survival, when you
really come to peace
with dying, then
you are fully able to live.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes.
Because you're not
running away from death.
And now what did you just say?
The last--
One of the things that started
me on this whole journey
on learning about this is when
I was 21 years old my teacher,
Lewis Bostwick, said to
me, you know, Michael, you
have a choice in how to die.
And that caught me--
LISA GARR: Yes, as
it just did for me.
Yes.
And so then he followed
that up with, well, you
can choose to die in
pain and suffering,
or you can choose to die in
love and at peace with yourself.
And I said I like the
second one better.
LISA GARR: Yeah,
so you learned then
So tell us the
experience-- now,
Michael has been through
five experiences where
his body has physically been--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Died or
almost in between death and--
Heart attacks, registered on
to an EKG meter as being flat
lined and so forth.
And we did cover a lot of
that in the other interview.
So that's Part 1.
And we're going to touch
on one of the major ones
that we didn't really have
that much time to get into.
So explained what happened.
Well, the one before the one
that I was dead for over 10
minutes was not a clinical
death in the sense
that I didn't actually flatline
on that third experience.
And it was hilarious-- it
wasn't hilarious at the time.
But I was driving by
myself going about 65,
70 miles an hour on the I-5
north from Los Angeles area,
more toward the desert.
And I had had a very
full month of traveling,
teaching, attending events,
and all kinds of things.
But I wasn't great
spirit and great shape.
And I stopped at a motel for
one night on my way home.
It's a long drive home.
So it takes a couple days.
And the next morning, I woke
up and had my little exercise
in the fitness room.
And then got in the car,
driving 65, 70 miles an hour
in the middle lane
on the freeway.
And next thing, boom, it hits.
I'm listening-- I remember
exactly what song.
It was before Christmas.
It was about 13 days
before Christmas.
And "I'll be home for
Christmas" was playing.
And I like that song.
So I'm singing along with it.
And I'm laughing
to myself that, oh,
yeah, I will be home
before Christmas,
13 days before Christmas.
And then what happened
was I started to feel
this very familiar sensation.
And it's hard to describe
what it feels like.
But it's kind of all
over the body, especially
in the upper half.
And it's kind of painful.
But it's more than that.
It's a sense of doom.
And you know, it's
a weird feeling
Is it not the gripping
sensation you're talking about?
It's more of--
Yeah, it was like a
pinching in the back
of between the shoulder blades.
So it's not like real
painful or anything.
But it's like you can't breathe.
And you're getting
very disoriented.
And I can tell, I'm
starting to leave.
And everything starts to
have this different kind
of a yellowish
pallor to everything.
And the things here
become very unreal.
So then I'm going, uh, oh.
this is not.
LISA GARR: I'm driving.
-I'm driving.
Nobody else is with me.
So I decide I gotta get
off the freeway, right.
I don't want to
cause an accident
and kill people and stuff.
So I'm going, OK, I got
to get off the freeway.
And then I see, oh,
there's an exit.
And so I get off at the exit.
And I'm already scoping out,
where can I go to get help?
I realize I'm going to
need some help here.
And so I see a couple
of gas stations.
And I see a Denny's.
Not a good advertisement
for Denny's.
Always open though.
So that's good.
And I figured, well,
more than the gas stations
and the convenience
stores, Denny's
would have a group of people.
And they had a parking lot.
And I knew I have to get
this car-- because I'm
driving a large SUB.
It's like a moving
weapon, right.
And so I'm going, I got
to get off this road.
And I make it to the
Denny's parking lot.
And for some
strange reason, just
like my first heart
attack, I just needed to go
find grass, green grass.
LISA GARR: Really?
For some reason-- yeah.
And I think it's a
body kind of a reaction
of I just need some Earth.
To ground.
To ground, yeah.
And so I park in the
parking lot at Denny's.
It's pitiful.
They have a little
bit grass here.
Like a square.
Yes.
But it's all yellow.
And it's--
Where all the dogs go.
-Yeah, where the dogs have been.
-Great.
Great.
So I'm--
This is it.
The things you're aware of
when you're about to die.
And I'm going-- and
then I found one
area at least that
looked like it
wasn't covered with dog stuff.
So I went, OK, I'll
lie down there.
And I'm grounding myself.
And you know, these
are all tools,
spiritual tools, I teach people.
And I practice all of them.
And I'm grounding myself.
I'm getting back into my
body more so I could think
and decide what to do next.
And so I thought, well, first
thing I'll call Raphaelle.
LISA GARR: Your wife?
And I was also thinking--
yes, my wife, who was at home--
and I'm also
thinking, oh, yeah, I
had this prescription of
nitros, nitroglycerin tablets.
The doctors prescribes it
for heart patients in case
you have angina and
stuff like that.
Never used it.
Never needed to.
And so I had it in there.
I bring it out.
It's so old but all the
instructions are rubbed off.
And then whatever
I could see it's
so tiny, microscopic
instructions, I can't read it.
So I call her.
And immediately-- oh, when I
called, she was on the phone.
I called the home phone.
And it went straight
to voice mail.
I went, uh, oh.
She's on the phone.
And so if she's
on the phone, she
could be on it for a long time.
So I called her cell
phone, hoping that you'll
see my name flashing.
And if I call enough times, she
might think it's an emergency.
Well, she got it right away.
She stopped the other phone
call, picked up her cell phone.
And she answered, what's wrong?
This is one of the great
things of living with, being
married to another
clairvoyant and intuitive,
who just is right on.
LISA GARR: Psychically aware.
So you're able to telepath
messages faster than voicemail.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Exactly.
Faster than voice mail.
Yes.
Better than the internet.
And so then she
goes, what's wrong?
And I said, well, I think
I'm having a heart attack.
And she goes, OK.
And I said, I need
to take my nitro
to see if that's going to help.
But I don't remember the
instructions that I've
never taken it before.
LISA GARR: It's amazing.
You're this cognisant
in this entire process.
Yes, and where I was at, from
my perspective at that point,
I'm barely-- I'm holding in
to my body with a string.
I mean, I'm touch and go.
I'm thinking at any
moment I might just go.
And so it was very
difficult to talk.
It was very difficult to
get my thoughts together.
And so then, right
then, our housekeeper
comes to clean the
house in the morning.
And so her husband
had a heart attack,
so she knew a lot of things
of how to deal with stuff.
So Raphaelle says,
Michael wants to know
how to use the nitro tabs.
And she goes, well, you
put one under your tongue,
wait five minutes.
And if nothing happens,
or it's not enough,
you take another one.
LISA GARR: Oh, so you had
someone there with you.
OK, perfect.
Exactly.
She was on speakerphone,
so I can hear both of them.
And then, so I said,
OK-- and, of course, I
opened this little vial and
all-- I dropped most of them
on the ground.
-Wow.
In the dog pee, great.
-I got one.
And I put it under the tongue.
Didn't do a thing.
And so I thought, I guess
I'd better wait five minutes
and hope that
something kicks in.
And just then, both
of them together,
housekeeper and Raphaelle
both said, yelled in,
get off the phone, call 911.
And I said, OK, I
guess I better do that.
LISA GARR: That's the most
sensible thing to-- yes.
Because I've been through
the other way before.
And so this time I didn't
have that red light of I
got to take care of something
before I go to the hospital.
Because once you
go to the hospital,
there are certain things
you can't really do.
It's too much activity.
And you know, everybody's
poking and prodding.
And so I thought, OK, I'm going
to get off the phone with them.
And I'm holding
there, looking at 911.
And I've got my finger poised.
And you know, the first
thought I had of-- I've never
called 911 in my entire life.
I've been a nurse.
I've been in hospitals
working on patients.
I've taken people to
the hospital and stuff.
But I've never called 911 for
police or ambulance or anything
in my whole life.
And so I'm about to push the
buttons, and the thought I have
is, oh, if I dial
those three numbers,
it's going to bankrupt us.
Oh, wow.
Because we have catastrophic
insurance only for emergencies.
But we've already
been through that.
And we're still three
years or whatever
after my first heart
attack, four years,
we're still paying
for the medical bills.
Oh, that's sad.
And you had to think of
that when you're about to-
I had to think of that, yeah.
These are points of making
a choice in your life.
There's many choices
you've made at this point.
I mean, in this moment, you have
had to make so many decisions.
Lots of choices, yeah.
And this is really another
thing my teacher taught
me a long time ago is
he said his definition
of a capable psychic
is one who is
able to make simple decisions.
Isn't that interesting?
Not complex.
No, I found that to be
absolutely true over the years.
When I first heard him say
that, I didn't understand it.
But over the years, every time
when a person sits on a maybe,
the fence of maybe-- maybe
I'll do it, maybe I won't.
Maybes, so draining.
It's a lot of energy.
You can't psychic.
You can't be psychic.
But every time someone is very,
very psychic-- and capably so,
not an off the wall psychic--
but being able to truly use
their psychic abilities is
when they were able to make
simple decision, yes or no.
Go here or don't
go there, whatever.
LISA GARR: And so a maybe
is a lack of your intuition.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Exactly.
-Interesting.
And lack of-- you
have intuition.
Lack of trusting it.
Then you sit on the
maybe, because you already
know the answer, but
you don't trust it.
So maybe I-- like that.
LISA GARR: So was that what
was going through your head
when you were--
No, when I was looking
I'm looking at my choices,
and I'm going if I
touch the three numbers,
it's going to bankrupt
us and our business.
And where is that
going to put Raphaelle?
Because she's our
business manager.
And then I thought, OK,
if I don't dial 911, well,
I'll probably die right here.
And that didn't
bother me so much.
I'm not bothered by dying.
And so I thought--
But that would have also
bankrupted the business.
Exactly.
I said, but if I
die here, it's going
to further bankrupt
Raphaelle and the business
and everything.
And she will be much more
affected than if I continue.
And so I thought, OK,
well, here goes nothing.
And, boy, was that
an experience.
I had nothing to
expect except what
you see on cop shows on TV.
And here I dial 911.
And the operator, 911, blah,
blah, blah, and very efficient,
professional.
And I said-- oh, before I dialed
I also went through a list,
because I didn't want to
take up the operator's time.
So I needed to be
to the point, give
all the necessary information
that a police dispatch,
ambulance dispatch,
operator would
need to have to get it right.
LISA GARR: Oh, like your name.
I'm going, OK, I'd
better give my name
and location, age,
and condition,
and where I am,
and all that stuff.
So I said, yes, my
name is Michael Tamura,
and I think at the time, 50--
whatever it was, 56, whatever.
And I have a history of
a heart attack before.
And I've been treated for it.
And I think I'm
having another one.
And I just drove myself
off of the freeway.
I'm parked in a
Denny's parking lot.
And then I realized I don't
know what town I'm in.
But I knew-- I looked at the
clock when this all started.
And I said, I started in
Patterson this morning
and I drove 45 minutes
and I came off,
and I was driving
at the speed limit.
So that's about how far
I've been from Patterson
and got off the freeway.
There's only one
exit in this town.
It's a little town.
And there's only one Denny's,
I'm sure, in this whole town.
I thought that would be enough.
And I said I was
heading north on I-5.
And the operator says,
OK, I need the address.
I need the city you're in.
And I need the address.
And the thing I'm thinking is
I'm flashing through TV shows,
don't you have it showing
up on your monitor.
Wow.
And then I realize, oh,
I'm on the cell phone.
So it doesn't come
up on the monitor
because it's not a home line.
Then I think, can't
you triangulate it.
So it was amazing
the kind of trivia--
You had all that stuff
going on in your mind.
Well, at least that showed
that you were coherent.
Yes.
And I'm looking at
all the options.
And I'm even looking
at, you know,
how come you're
not doing your job.
And by this point, I'm so weak.
And I'm barely kind
of hanging in there.
So I go, I got to get help
to find out what town I'm in.
And I said, well, I
got to go ask somebody.
LISA GARR: You're
laying on the grass.
I'm lying on the ground.
And I get myself up.
And I'm staggering.
And it's like that feeling of
about to pass out any moment,
you know.
So I'm staggering.
And there's a whole group of
people coming out of Denny's.
And they're all
talking and lively.
And so from my perspective,
I thought I was yelling out.
I said, does anybody know
you know what town this is.
A couple of people kind
of looked in my direction.
And they went back to
talking to each other.
And I got completely ignored.
So I don't know if that's
because I didn't talk loud
enough, or they
were a little afraid
of what this weird
person staggering over.
And so they all-- there
was about like eight
people, 10 people, just left.
And then this other couple
comes out after them.
I'm a little closer to the door.
And I ask them,
what town is this?
And one person said, I
think, it was Lathrop.
And so the operator heard
right through the phone.
And she said, OK,
I got that town.
Now I need the cross streets.
LISA GARR: She said--
Oh, she didn't
say cross streets.
I need the address.
The address, I need.
I said, it's Lathrop.
It's a small town.
I think there's
only one Denny's,
especially by the I-5 exit.
You
You could have
died at this point.
Yeah, and I'm thinking can't
you get it together there.
Well, I didn't
realize she's already
got everything in motion.
But she wants to get as much
information as possible.
LISA GARR: Oh, she's
trying to-- oh, OK, I see.
And she's wanting to
keep me on the phone.
LISA GARR: Engaged, OK.
And so I finally
go into the Denny's.
And they always have that
waiting bench next to the door.
So I'm thinking,
I got to lie down.
There's one person sitting
halfway between the two
ends of the bench.
And I'm going, excuse
me, I'm in an emergency.
I need to lie down.
He wouldn't move.
Oh, my goodness.
So I kind of crunch
up on one side.
Oh.
Yeah, he just sat there and
like, who the hell are you.
LISA GARR: Oh, my gosh.
You're dying.
And he's-- wow, interesting.
So then I holler-- and
there's a lot of people there.
People paying, waitresses,
you know, bus boys--
LISA GARR: Oh, I'm
thinking it's empty.
No, it's pretty crowded.
And so I'm hollering to
the general cashier area
where there's the
most number of people.
I'm saying, I'm on
a 911 call and I
need the address of this place.
LISA GARR: And
you're laying down?
As I'm kind of half
lying down by that point.
And nobody even really stopped.
One person kind of looked.
And then I repeated myself.
And somebody in the back,
kitchen or someplace,
and yells out the street
address loud enough--
LISA GARR: Oh, so
he could hear you?
Yes, that the operator heard
it through the cell phone.
And she said, I got it.
And she said, stay on the
phone, do not hang up.
Stay on the phone.
We have the emergency crew
on the road right now.
They should be there shortly.
And I said, thank you very much.
And she said, stay on the phone.
I said, I will.
And then she hung up.
Or are the connection broke.
So it's always these little
comedy things, divine comedy.
I mean, it's--
what did you learn
from that whole experience?
Well, one of the things
that was amazing to me
was in the midst of that, like
you're in the eye of the storm,
and everything's happening.
And even in my body, it's
kind of outside of me,
and I'm in the middle.
And where I am is very quiet.
And I'm even able to see the
humor in these kinds of things,
like she goes don't
hang up and it dies.
And I can smell-- when the
firemen and the paramedics
came, I heard their boots.
I can tell how many
of them there were,
which ones were
women-- and I have
my eyes closed-- which ones were
men and which ones are women.
And I can smell the
diesel fuel from the fire
engines and stuff.
And the sounds were--
I'm in hypersensitivity.
But the thing that
really struck me was I'm
going, what if I were a homeless
person without any resources
whatsoever?
You know, I mean,
I felt so fortunate
that I could even call on
a cell phone, call my wife,
and get some support.
LISA GARR: But isn't it
interesting that you were
ostracized as a dying-- I
mean, you were dying and people
wouldn't give you the--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Time of the day.
-Attention.
Yes, it's like trying to pull
teeth just to get some help.
Yes, and I think
people don't know what
to do when they're faced
with-- they get scared
and they kind of freeze.
And they don't know what
to do and especially
if they don't know what's
going on with the other person.
I may have looked
kind of strange,
kind of crawling in there
and lying down halfway.
And, well, I mean, maybe
people listening to this
could have more
compassion for people
when they-- open your eyes
a little bit more to what
may be going on around you.
But back to the experience of
death, now you had at that time
when you got rushed
to the hospital, what
happened when you got there?
Well, once I was
in the ambulance,
I felt, OK, my
physical well being
is taken care of by
these capable people
in the ambulance.
And a lot of very interesting
magical things happen.
But that's long, long story.
But where I was at
was as I'm going,
I thought, OK, I can't really do
a whole lot more with my body.
But I'm not sure if
I'm going to make it,
even though I knew from my first
death that was a time when it
was decided that I had
a choice to come back
or to stay in spirit, because
I was done with everything
I came to do in this
lifetime and then some.
LISA GARR: Now what do
you mean you were done
with everything you came to do?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Well,
when we incarnate, prior
to our incarnation, every single
soul makes a plan, a very, very
intricate plan of what we need
to learn in life, what are
the main lessons
we need to learn,
what are some of
the karmic cycles
from previous incarnations that
we need to fulfil, resolve.
And what are we here to do?
What are we here to contribute?
What are we here to share
of ourselves with others?
And so we all make those plans
LISA GARR: Before we come in?
Before we come in.
And we even select who we're
going to have as parents.
And then we forget
them when we come here.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Some of us do.
LISA GARR: Some of us do.
Or I would say probably
many, most people do.
And if you ask a small
child early enough
they almost always remember.
Because they'll say
things like, well,
before I came into mommy's
tummy or before I came--
LISA GARR: Right, very common.
Yeah, I was in a room.
And I was looking at pictures
of who was going to be
my mother and things like that.
But we make the whole thing.
And I was done with it.
And I was assured that I had
done far more than I plan to do
LISA GARR: So that's
what you meant
by your you could have gone at
that point and been OK with it?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes.
But that time, I
asked for advice
in terms of what would be
of the greatest benefit,
not only for myself, but
for everyone concerned.
LISA GARR: And you
asked the [INAUDIBLE]?
MICHAEL TAMURA: The council
I met with the council.
The first time I met
with the council,
or part of my council--
everyone has a council.
LISA GARR: Explain that.
You talked a little bit about
it in the first interview.
Yes, the council is a group of
beings who oversee everything
from the individual
soul's life and trajectory
of how they're going to evolve
and what they're going to do.
And then souls like
myself who are primarily
here to heal and
to teach others,
we have a different
kind of a council
who also oversees the
direction that things
are going on this planet
on a larger scale.
And so they're
very involved in am
I going to be able to do this,
this, and this, and so forth.
And so on so it's
not just a personal--
So we don't have to
necessarily die to get
in touch with that council.
We could access
that inner guidance,
council, beings, or whatever
want to call it, at any time?
Well, to be in that kind
of a council meeting,
it requires one to really
fully be out of the body.
So unless you're able to do
that in a deep meditation,
or when you're
temporarily dead--
Or having an awakening
or a massively
transformational experiment.
But the information comes
down through our spirit guides.
Our guides will
relay information
from the council and stuff
in much easier fashion.
We don't have to die.
That's good thing--
But it requires
us to be intuitive.
And we might want
to skip that part
and just go right to the
transformational part.
But that's why you're here to
tell us that you've been there
and back and that there
is a council that you
have followed the guidance of.
And the story's about
and from speaking to,
as I have about these
experiences for hours
and hours, the
council that you speak
of has such a beautiful
knowing energy to it.
And it's more than
just a group of beings
around a conference table.
I mean, you're talking about
guides that communicate
without words, that just
communicate with energy
and essences and feelings
and pictures and emotions.
And that's the form
of communication
that you received.
And it's very possible
to communicate like that.
MICHAEL TAMURA: And we
all do all the time.
But what most people
get distracted by
is this and all of this.
So this body is
very sophisticated.
It's very intricate,
complex mechanism.
And it has all the
sensory perceptions.
For millennia, the
spiritual teachers
have been trying to devise ways
to teach humanity how to subdue
those sensory perceptions
enough to give them
an experience, while they're
incarnated in a physical body,
give them an experience of
what it is to be a soul, what
it is to be an immortal being.
LISA GARR: That's
why we incarnate
is to get that experience.
Yes, to get that
experience, to realize that,
and then to really live
that way, embody that.
But as long as we don't
recognize that almost
everything we're experiencing
on a sensory level--
feeling, touch, sight,
physical sight, hearing,
smelling, all of that,
that's sensory perceptions.
It's not the truth.
LISA GARR: Then what is?
It's like the difference
between watching something
on TV-- you see it,
and it looks real.
And you even interact with that.
But you know, it's data that's
coming through electric lines
and airwaves and then
being reconfigured
to show you pictures.
And sensory perception
works very much like that.
It's not the real.
It's an appearance of reality.
So we take in the input from
our external environment.
And then we--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Translate it.
Our opinions of what it is.
And that shows up
as our reality.
That's right and.
Everybody thinks that's what
reality is for everyone.
But it's not.
-Interesting.
So when people say
when you change
your perception about
something it will
change your reality about it.
Is that true?
Yes.
And this is the path of the
clairvoyant, the person who
starts to seek the truth and
starts to see, not only see
the light more, but the see
the truth behind and beyond
what appears to be.
When we all these people,
spiritual teachers, who devise
different kinds or yogas and
different kinds of meditation
practices, one part of it
is always trying to subdue
the sensory perception.
So when you quiet your mind--
that's what it means to quiet
your mind-- is the
mind is constantly
bombarded by trillions
of cells going,
feed me, feed me, feed me, or--
Replicate, replicate.
Replicate.
Grow, grow.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, and that's intense.
And that's like
noise to the mind.
It's so noisy.
And the mind gets distracted.
And we get, as souls, we get
distracted by all the noise.
The squeaky wheel gets
the grease, right.
So there are squeaky wheels
going on all over the place.
And we just are
greasing everything
and forget why we're here.
So those are all
the distracters.
MICHAEL TAMURA: And those
are all the distracters.
That takes us away from
our real essence of knowing.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes.
So in this experience of
going in the ambulance,
I was able to review
that and go, OK,
I've already made the new
commitment to be here.
I can't just leave.
LISA GARR: In the ambulance,
you made that commitment?
Yes in the ambulance, I was
reviewing that commitment
that I had already made before.
And I thought, OK, so
I need to really get
my act together here to stay.
See, it was so different
because before it didn't matter
to me if I stayed or left.
It truly didn't matter.
This is the most
conscious explanation
of death I've ever heard.
The choices and the
clarity of choices
and the recall of your
choices are so clear as you're
talking about them.
It's extraordinary.
And it makes me think of, OK,
what's the opposite of that?
If you were to have a
traumatic experience,
how quickly do you give up
all your sonority to something
else taking over for you?
Oop, let me just give it
up and lay here and die,
or wait for something
to take care of me,
or a drug or
something like that.
You took so much
some responsibility
to make individual choices
during this experience
while you were having
a heart attack.
That is truly extraordinary.
Most people-- and it's
not even a choice.
It's just fear and survival
that you just leave.
I mean, my mother
had a heart attack.
And she just
remembers, of course,
an angel coming in-- angel,
it was a random human coming
in, saving her out of the pool.
And the rest of it was a blur.
Because, yeah, and that's true.
That is what tends to happen.
Because who is aware?
You are.
I am.
We each are the awareness
in this existence.
And so if we get
afraid and leave,
then this body is not aware.
Wow, so in any situation,
that's traumatic,
it's your perception of
the trauma that enables you
to stay in control
or in seniority
with what's happening
to the body.
It's all about choice.
And it's all about you.
It's all about me.
It's all about if
I'm here, present,
I can make those choices.
If I leave, well,
the choices don't
need to be made where
I go away from here,
because this is where the
choice has to be made.
So with the
experiences that you've
had of being through
five traumatic deaths--
I won't even actually
call traumatic.
That's maybe my
judgement-- five times
where you have died, what do you
feel is the message that you're
here to bring to all of us?
Well, you know, after I
came back from the time
when I was dead for 10 minutes,
before the paramedics were
able to zap me and get my
heart started, but I was
in a coma for 36 hours after
that, and during that time--
and I was gone for a lot longer.
I only came back and
I could only tell you
what happened during
that time for maybe--
I lost a great part of my
memory, complete memory,
for I think nine or 10
days before I dropped dead.
Did you go into an
alternate reality?
Did you go into Narnia
in of "The Lion,
the Witch, and the Wardrobe"?
Yeah, very much like that.
And definitely, I
didn't go there.
I was taken there.
There's a different experience
of going somewhere-- I've
been a lot of places out
of my body consciously
and not having to
die or anything.
And every night I go.
But in that death experience,
I was taken out so fast.
It was like instant,
hydraulic suction.
And my experience,
subjective experience, of it
was I was taken to
a place, or a space,
that was as far away from here
than you can possibly imagine,
yet in the center of it all.
That's the only way I can
describe that experience.
And you don't think
this is an altered
conscious state of your mind?
It's not the mind.
The mind only can experience
where you are or what you do.
LISA GARR: Or an altered
state of consciousness,
is it different from that?
And it was beyond
consciousness.
Consciousness, it
was beyond the mind.
It was just beyond the mind.
It was just during--
again, there's no words.
Once you get beyond the
mind, there's no words,
there is no time.
So there's no linear
sequence of events.
So it's very, very
difficult to talk
about it other than about it.
Kind of in retrospect, if I
were to put it into 3-D terms
it was being in this
complete sanctuary with God,
but more so, more
specifically the experience
is one of being sitting in front
of the eternal flame of God's
love.
Those are the words that
I could come up with.
They don't even
begin to describe it.
But it's that kind of
after, in retrospect if I
were going to put words on it.
Was there a glow or a light?
Is that why you
used the word flame?
It's like a glow.
And it wasn't flame
in the sense of heat,
because there's no sensory
perception whatsoever.
There's no words.
There's no thought.
This is worth a lot of
times in spiritual writings
they talk about nothingness.
And people misinterpret
that left and right,
because nothingness
isn't nothing.
But it isn't anything.
I understand.
Yes, yes.
That's when it starts to
get really dicey when--
No, it really, really, really
pushes the boundaries here
of reality, because it makes
you think that everything that
we experience, that we
think is an experience,
are all choices--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Perceptions.
Senses, thinking.
I mean, touch, smell,
all of that hearing
is all of this physical body.
Exactly.
And if you look at our
language, especially
like the English language, the
words are all about the body
and about this physical reality.
LISA GARR: Barriers.
They're kind of
creating the boundaries.
So if you think that, or assume
that thinking is your highest
form of communication
and understanding,
you can't get past that.
So when I was asking you what
are you here to bring about--
Yes, so when I returned
from that experience,
I was looking at, OK, I've
had these experiences.
Every single one was unique
and completely different,
completely different.
And yet, I thought,
was there anything
of all of that that was common
or the same in each experience?
And I finally recognized
what that was.
It didn't matter what
the experience was
of dying and death and after
and before and coming back,
every single time I came
back and I realized there
was less of my selfishness.
Every death-- and when I
examine other people's deaths,
I saw the same thing
is every time we die--
and then I start to examine
the little deaths, divorce,
a change of venue, change of
career, death of a friend,
family member,
whatever, those are
all deaths we each experience.
You know, when somebody
you're so close to
or you love more than
yourself, and they die,
well, gee, you feel
like you're dead.
You feel like you're dying.
And sometimes, I
would say it's harder
for the person who's living,
than the person who leaves.
Yes, as you've
experienced where
you go into this eternal space
it was very, very peaceful.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah,
there's no problems.
And so what I learned was,
for all of us, every time,
regardless of how different
the experience of it is,
we learn how to relinquish
our selfishness.
And I realized that
when I was in that space
of total selflessness,
when I came back
it's like putting on
your winter clothes
back on from after
your trip to Hawaii.
You got your swim
shorts on, and then you
start putting on the
sweaters and the coats
and the hoods and everything.
So you get heavy.
And what I was putting
back on was some degree
of that selfishness.
And a lot of us don't think of
it as selfishness because it's
so entrenched in us.
We look at other people
who are really selfish,
you know, the scrooges and
the people who just are--
LISA GARR: We see the
images on television.
Egotistical and selfish.
I mean what you're describing
is more of like a Buddhist
way of life, I mean, really
with lack of boundaries
and that sense of
space and oneness.
But I want to ask you about,
how do you manifest, or create,
from that place, what does
that eternal space tell us
when we are in this
body to live selflessly,
but yet to manifest?
Yes isn't that interesting
that you brought up
the Buddhists which
comes from Buddha,
the teachings of Buddha.
That's limited to,
OK, OK, go ahead.
Then shortly
sometime after a few,
whatever, a couple thousand
whatever years after Buddha's
time, there's Jesus.
And they work together.
And so Buddha introduced
this teaching of essentially
being in the present.
He talked about right no mind,
or nothingness like that.
But he's communicating about
what happens when you let go
of all the contents
of one's mind
and you just experience
as is and you're here now.
And he did a lot of teaching.
But then Jesus comes
along sometime later,
from a very different culture,
a very different setting.
And his was about doing to
others as you would have them
do to you versus Buddha said the
same thing in-- not reversed,
but he said, don't
do to others what you
wouldn't want them do to you.
It's not interesting?
It's kind of the yin and
yang of the whole thing.
So they're like bookends.
Their teachings
are like bookends.
And Jesus is the one
who brought forth
a whole new teaching
of love your neighbors
as you love yourself.
It's teaching of action.
So what do you do once you've
attained this inner peace,
once you've attained
this nirvana--
LISA GARR: This oneness.
Yes, many people who study
spirituality and everything
especially in the eastern
meditation route, they think,
OK, nirvana is the destination.
It's then end game.
It's not.
It's the first half.
LISA GARR: Wow.
Wow.
You're talking about
what kind of great beings
are on these councils
that oversee thing.
Well, these are beings who
didn't just go to Nirvana.
And this is why people
still experience Jesus
showing up in their lives.
People still encounter
Buddha as a very powerful
consciousness of beingness.
And you can tell the
difference between the two,
just like you can tell the
difference between you and me.
But they have not only reached
that state called nirvana,
but they learned how to bring
it back down into the body
and live it here.
LISA GARR: Like I asked
you about manifesting?
Yes.
So in nirvana is
only the first half.
But then to fully create
and manifest here is the--
You have to bring it down.
Other half.
Yeah, you have
to bring it down.
You have to live it.
And the funny thing
when you start
to live much more of heaven on
Earth-- you know the saying,
bringing heaven onto Earth-- how
do we bring heaven on to Earth
as we have to live
heaven on Earth.
Heaven isn't some extra,
other separate place
we have to go and grab something
from and bring it to Earth.
No, it's right here.
Earth is kind of
superimposed upon it.
We have to be like
archaeologists
and dig it up and
go, hey, everybody,
all you see is this dirt and
trash and rubble on the ground.
If you dust it off a
little bit, there's gold.
So where is joy in this wheel?
MICHAEL TAMURA:
Right here, inside.
But I'm looking at
this as a circle.
And if you're saying the
first half is nirvana,
nothingness, oneness.
And then you come
full circle to a place
of manifestation, heaven on
Earth, does joy happen there?
Joy is already
within each of us,
from the most depressed person
to the most joyous person,
and a peaceful person.
And the joy is unending.
Spirit is never ending.
It's limitless.
It's never ending.
So it doesn't begin
somewhere and end somewhere.
It doesn't go from
here to there.
It's everywhere all the time.
It's just that most of us
live our lives like this.
Either, or.
Absolutely, you're
absolutely right.
And what I'm
thinking-- I mean, this
is an incredible conversation.
Because we do, we
live in dichotomies.
Either or.
This or that.
Have, have not.
With, without.
And you're saying
it's the same energy?
Yes, you have to be--
in this physical world,
it looks like there's
night and then there's day.
But you know, that if you wait
through the night, day comes.
And if you wait through
the day, night comes.
And it's just we don't
experience it at the same time.
But just because
we don't experience
two so-called polar
opposites at the same time
doesn't mean they don't
exist at the same time.
Night is on the other
side of the planet
while we have day on
this side of the planet.
So you know that night
and day are co-existing.
And so how do you go--
the mind is in a sense
programmed for either or.
Like a computer works either
or, 0 or 1, 0 or 1, on or off,
on or off, on or off.
And that's how the electricity
moves through the mechanism.
The mind can be trained that
way, to think in either or.
Then you have what we
call rational thought
of deducing a plus b equals
c, and then therefore,
and therefore.
And you have a linear level
of reasoning-- either, or.
Then if we go beyond that,
we have how spirit works.
It's both, and.
It doesn't exclude.
It includes.
So back to your
question of how do
we manifest that heaven
or joy or miracle
or whatever it is
that we experience,
whether you call it on the other
side or deep within ourselves,
how do we manifest that?
It's very, very easy.
A much simpler word than
manifestation is sharing.
LISA GARR: It's an
inclusive conversation.
I am so grateful that
you brought this up.
It always brings me to tears,
because you what you're
speaking is such a truth.
It's such beautiful truth.
And I mean, you are, in my
opinion, one of the master
spiritual teachers out
there, ahead of your time.
And I've known you for
20 something years.
So I speak from experience.
But the concepts that you are
talking about are so advanced.
It's almost super consciousness.
There's so ahead of the
general new age consciousness
talk that's going on right now.
It takes a person who can
really grasp these concepts
to understand the
beauty of what it
is that you're talking about.
You go beyond competition.
You go beyond separation.
You go beyond the haves and
the have nots to inclusion
all the way around.
It eliminates the 99 or the 1.
It eliminates all of it.
It's a very advanced
concept in a way.
But most every little
child knows this.
LISA GARR: Every little
child and every centenarian.
It's the in-between
that gets hard core.
It's the in-between that
need to figure this out.
So practically, when you are
living your life with having
a job and getting to
get the bills paid,
and how do you push the elevator
button up to enlightenment
and not have to do any of that?
It's so funny because--
LISA GARR: Can we
just bypass all that?
We did push the elevator
button down in this building.
And we couldn't--
the door would close,
but it wouldn't go anywhere.
So I'm working on that,
how to push the elevator.
The practicality of it all.
The joke is on us.
But that whole level of
manifesting heaven on Earth
and bringing joy
into one's life,
you can't bring joy
into your life only.
The joy is contagious.
You can't just bring it
into your life and go, OK,
this is my joy.
And you're not
going to have any.
Go, get away from me.
This is my joy.
It doesn't work that way.
It works through sharing.
That's why we all learned
the most important
thing in kindergarten.
Every one of us who went
to kindergarten, somewhere
along the way, the teacher
says, OK, children,
if you bring something
to class, you
have to share it with everyone.
And I think that's the
most single most important
thing we learned
in school we learn
in kindergarten is to share.
And if we actually
learn it in kindergarten
and practice it
throughout our lives,
we would all be enlightened.
Because why don't
we like to share?
Well, I've heard
so many people go,
well, I have nothing to share.
I'm poor.
I don't have any money.
Or I didn't go to school.
I don't have a PhD.
Or I haven't traveled like you.
I don't have those
gifts or whatever.
What are they doing?
All the people who
don't share like that
are looking at what
they don't have.
I can't share
anything I don't have.
And I never try.
I never try to share something
I don't have because that
would be ridiculous.
I can't share
something I don't have.
But when I find something
I do have-- I mean,
I'm sure we've all
had experiences
where we got really enthusiastic
and bake too many cookies.
We're not going to eat it.
Our family can't eat it all.
It's going to spoil
if we just hoard it.
So we go, have a cookie,
here have a cookie.
And we share it.
Why do people start to think
that they don't have something
incredibly valuable to share?
I have never met a
single human being
who didn't have a goldmine
to share of something.
LISA GARR: Oh, wow, not
just something small.
A goldmine.
No, it's not, oh, this person
has a little bit to share
and that person
has a lot to share.
No, this person shares little
and that person shares a lot.
It's not they don't have it.
They don't see it.
If you don't appreciate
what's inside,
you're not going to if
you're not going to think
there's anything to share.
It's like how many people
live their lives going,
oh, I'm just a regular guy.
I'm nobody.
I'm not--
You've had those
special experiences.
You go teach it.
Exactly, you're different.
No, what makes my
experiences special is
that I see that in everybody.
LISA GARR: And it's a great
message to tell people.
Share whatever you do
have, whatever you do have.
And if we all could do
that, this world would
be an absolutely amazing place.
MICHAEL TAMURA: It is.
It's an amazing place.
But people are holding it.
LISA GARR: Sharing
more amazing then.
Sharing means let
your light out.
Shine your light.
And I think we talked about this
last time, when you were asking
me about seeing people's
auras and the light emanating
from everybody.
And you said, do
you see some people
as really bright and other
people was not so dark
or whatever?
And I said, everyone
this bright.
But a lot of people, they
shroud their light and saying,
don't look.
Well, we have once again
blown through a whole hour.
And it felt like five minutes.
And your stories
are so incredible.
But I really wanted to come back
and teach some of the lessons
that you have learned and that
you have to share with us.
And you can share this
interview with your friends.
And you can learn more
about Michael Tamura.
You can watch a replay of my
interview with Michael Tamura
and share it with
your friends as
well by going to GaiamTV.com.
There's a lot more
thought provoking
interviews and inspirational
films as well there.
So go to GaiamTV.com today.
And I want to say thank
you so much for coming
back and sharing
your stories with us.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Thank you.
It's great to be here.
It's great to be with you, Lisa.
LISA GARR: As always.
As always.
Michael Tamura, incredible
spiritual teacher.
And thank you all so
much for being with me.
And until next time, as always,
I invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]